[docs] [migrate] Add a troubleshoot page (#15097)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/migrate/troubleshoot.md

---
title: Troubleshoot
linkTitle: Troubleshoot
description: Troubleshoot issues when migrating data using YugabyteDB Voyager.
beta: /preview/faq/general/#what-is-the-definition-of-the-beta-feature-tag
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: troubleshoot-voyager
    parent: voyager
    weight: 106
type: docs
---

This page documents the known issues and workarounds, and unsupported features when migrating data with YugabyteDB Voyager.

## Known issues

### Issue #573: [MySQL] Unsigned decimal types are not exported properly

> **GitHub link**: [Issue #573](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/573)

Reviewer: some issues are closed. what does that mean

        dec_type DECIMAL(5,5),
        numeric_type DECIMAL(10,5),
        fixed_type DECIMAL (10,3)
) ;
```

---

### Issue #188: [MySQL] Approaching MAX/MIN double precision values are not exported

**GitHub link**: [Issue #188](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/188)

**Description**: Exporting double precision values near MAX/MIN value results in an _out of range_ error.

**Workaround**: All float style data types are exported to double precision value in YugabyteDB. You can manually edit post export, or by editing the `DATA_TYPE` directive in the ora2pg base configuration file before starting export.

**Example**

An example schema on the source MySQL database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE floating_point_types(
    float_type float,
    double_type double,
    double_precision_type DOUBLE PRECISION,
    real_type REAL
);
```

The exported schema example is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE floating_point_types (
    float_type double precision,
    double_type double precision,
    double_precision_type double precision,
    real_type double precision
);
```

Suggested changes to the schema can be done using one of the following options:

> 1. Edit the `/etc/yb-voyager/base-ora2pg.conf` file before exporting schema, using the `DATA_TYPE` directive.

Reviewer: use bullets; numbers seem too much like steps

    | DATE/TIMESTAMP | timestamp |
    | LONG/CLOB/NCLOB | text |
    | LONG RAW/BLOB/BFILE/RAW | bytea |
    | UROWI/ROWID | oid |
    | FLOAT/DOUBLE PRECISION/BINARY_FLOAT/BINARY_DOUBLE | double precision |
    | DEC/DECIMAL | decimal |
    | INT/INTEGER | numeric |
    | REAL | real |
    | SMALLINT | smallint |
    | XMLTYPE | xml |
    | BINARY_INTEGER/PLS_INTEGER | integer |
    | TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE/TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE | timestamp with time zone |

    Replace the mapping wherever needed, using valid YugabyteDB data types.

1. Edit the exported schema files as follows:

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE floating_point_types (
        float_type double precision, /*can be replaced with any other float-like data type*/
        double_type double precision,
        double_precision_type double precision,
        real_type real
    );
    ```

---

### Issue #579: [MySQL] Functional/Expression indexes fail to migrate

**GitHub link**: [Issue #579](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/579)

**Description**: If your schema contains Functional/Expression indexes in MYSQL, the index creation fails with a syntax error during migration and doesn't get migrated.

> **Workaround**: Manual intervention needed. You have to remove the back-ticks (``) or oblique quotes ("") to the exported schema files.

Reviewer: from the exported

**Example**

An example schema on the source MySQL database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE INDEX exp_ind ON exp_index_test((year(`to_date`)));
```

The exported schema example is as follows:

```sql
CREATE INDEX exp_ind ON exp_index_test ((extract(year from date(`to_date`))));
```

Suggested change to the schema is to remove the back-ticks as follows:

```sql
CREATE INDEX exp_ind ON exp_index_test ((extract(year from date(to_date))));
```

---

> ### Issue #320: [MySQL] Issue when exporting data from MySQL with table_name including quotes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issue #320: [MySQL] Exporting data from MySQL when table names include quotes
```

**GitHub link**: [Issue #320](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/320)

> **Description**: When exporting the schema from MySQL which includes the table_name with quotes, it exports the table with the table_name converted to lowercase and without quotes, resulting in an error when exporting the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: When exporting a schema from MySQL that includes a table name that has quotes, the table is exported with the table name converted to lowercase and without the quotes, resulting in an error.
```

> **Workaround**: Manual intervention needed. You have to rename the table in MySQL and then export and import the data followed by renaming it in YugabyteDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Workaround**: Manual intervention needed. You have to rename the table in MySQL and then export and import the data followed by renaming the table in YugabyteDB.
```

Example tables for source MySQL database is as follows:

```sql
show tables;
```

```output
+----------------------+
| Tables_in_pk_missing |
+----------------------+
| "test_data_COPY"     |
| TEST_DATA            |
+----------------------+
```

> The exported schema eaxmple is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exported schema is as follows:
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE test_data_copy (
   id serial,
   first_name varchar(50),
   last_name varchar(50),
   email varchar(50),
   gender varchar(50),
   ip_address varchar(20),
   PRIMARY KEY (id)
) ;
```

Error when exporting data is as follows:

```output
DBD::mysql::st execute failed: Table 'pk_missing.test_data_COPY' doesn't exist at /usr/local/share/perl5/Ora2Pg.pm line 14247.
DBD::mysql::st execute failed: Table 'pk_missing.test_data_COPY' doesn't exist at /usr/local/share/perl5/Ora2Pg.pm line 14247.
```

Suggested workaround is as follows:

> 1. Rename the table name with quotes to a name without quotes in MySQL database using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Rename the table with the quotes using a name without quotes in MySQL database using the following command:
```

    ```sql
    Alter table `"test_data_COPY"` rename test_data_COPY2;
    ```

1. Export and import the data.

> 1. Rename the table name in YugabyteDB to a quoted one using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Rename the table in YugabyteDB to include the quotes using the following command:
```

    ```sql
    Alter table test_data_copy2 rename to "test_data_COPY";
    ```

---

> ### Issue #207: [Oracle] Some numeric types do not get exported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issue #207: [Oracle] Some numeric types are not exported
```

**GitHub link**: [Issue #207](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/207)

> **Description**: For cases where the precision is less than the scale in a numeric attribute, it fails to get imported to YugabyteDB.

Reviewer: what is 'it'?

> **Workaround**: Manually remove the explicit precision and scale values from the exported numeric or decimal attributes. PostgreSQL or YugabyteDB does not allow setting the precision less than the scale explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Workaround**: Manually remove the explicit precision and scale values from the exported numeric or decimal attributes. PostgreSQL and YugabyteDB do not allow setting the precision less than the scale explicitly.
```

**Example**

An example schema on the source Oracle database is as follows:

```sql
create table numeric_size(
    num_min number(1,-84),
    num_max number(38,127),
    numeric_min numeric(1,-84),
    numeric_max numeric(38,127),
    float_val FLOAT(5),
    dec_min_Val dec(1,-84),
    dec_max_Val dec(38,127),
    decimal_min_Val decimal(1,-84),
    decimal_max_Val decimal(38,127)
);
```

> The exported schema example is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exported schema is as follows:
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE numeric_size (
    num_min real,
    num_max decimal(38,127),
    numeric_min real,
    numeric_max decimal(38,127),
    float_val double precision,
    dec_min_val real,
    dec_max_val decimal(38,127),
    decimal_min_val real,
    decimal_max_val decimal(38,127)
) ;
```

Suggested change to the schema is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE numeric_size (
    num_min real,
    num_max decimal,
    numeric_min real,
    numeric_max decimal,
    float_val double precision,
    dec_min_val real,
    dec_max_val decimal,
    decimal_min_val real,
    decimal_max_val decimal
) ;
```

---

> ### Issue #584: [Oracle] RAW data fails to get imported in some cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issue #584: [Oracle] RAW data is not imported in some cases
```

**GitHub link**: [Issue #584](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/584)

**Description**: When attempting to migrate a (LONG) RAW attribute from an Oracle instance, you may face an _invalid hexadecimal error_.

> **Workaround**: None. A workaround is being explored currently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Workaround**: None. A workaround is currently being explored.
```

---

> ### Issue #602: [Oracle] Issue using a variation of `trunc` function with datetime column in Oracle and YugabyteDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issue #602: [Oracle] Using a variation of `trunc` with datetime columns in Oracle and YugabyteDB
```

**GitHub link**: [Issue #602](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/602)

> **Description**: You can use the `trunc` function with a timestamp column in your Oracle schema, but this variation is not supported in YugabytedB, because the `date_trunc` function is used for such types of datetime columns. So, when you export such a schema using `trunc`, it exports `trunc` and fails during data import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: You can use the `trunc` function with a timestamp column in your Oracle schema, but this variation is not supported in YugabytedB, where the `date_trunc` function is used for these types of datetime columns. When you export such a schema using `trunc`, the data import fails.
```

> **Workaround**: Manual intervention needed. You have to replace the function from `trunc` to `date_trunc` in the exported schema files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Workaround**: Manual intervention needed. You have to replace `trunc` with `date_trunc` in the exported schema files.
```

**Example**

An example DDL on the source Oracle database is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE test_timezone ADD CONSTRAINT test_cc1 CHECK ((dtts = trunc(dtts)));
```

Note that the DDL gets exported with `trunc` function and you have to replace it with `date_trunc` after export as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE test_timezone ADD CONSTRAINT test_cc1 CHECK ((dtts = date_trunc('day',dtts)));
```

---

> ### Issue #334: [MySQL, Oracle] Issue when importing with case-sensitive schema names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issue #334: [MySQL, Oracle] Importing case-sensitive schema names
```

job_id varchar(10),
salary double precision,
part_name varchar(25),
PRIMARY KEY (employee_id)) PARTITION BY RANGE (hire_date) ;
```

The preceding example will result in an error as follows:

```output
ERROR:  insufficient columns in the PRIMARY KEY constraint definition
DETAIL:  PRIMARY KEY constraint on table "employees" lacks column "hire_date" which is part of the partition key.
```

An example table with the suggested workaround is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE employees (
employee_id integer NOT NULL,
first_name varchar(20),
last_name varchar(25),
email varchar(25),
phone_number varchar(20),
hire_date timestamp DEFAULT statement_timestamp(),
job_id varchar(10),
salary double precision,
part_name varchar(25),
PRIMARY KEY (employee_id, hire_date)) PARTITION BY RANGE (hire_date) ;
```

---

## Unsupported features

Currently, yb-voyager doesn't support the following features:

| Feature | Description/Alternatives  | GitHub Issue |
| :------ | :------------------------ | :----------- |
| ALTER VIEW | YugabyteDB does not yet support any schemas containing `ALTER VIEW` statements. | [48](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/48) |

> | BLOB and CLOB | yb-voyager currently ignores all columns of type BLOB/CLOB. <br>  Use another mechanism to load the attributes till this feature is supported.| [43](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/43) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| BLOB and CLOB | yb-voyager currently ignores all columns of type BLOB/CLOB. <br>Use another mechanism to load the attributes.| [43](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/43) |
```

Suggested workaround is as follows:

> 1. Rename the table with the quotes using a name without quotes in MySQL database using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In MySQL, rename the table using a name without quotes using the following command:
```
